---
permalink: /se21/
layout: page
slug: SE
year: 2021
---
# SECPPS 2021 (Feb 22, 2021)

The 2021 Edition of this Workshop series -- it's first instance -- was collocated with the Software Engineering (SE21) conference, held from Feb 22-26, 2021, organized in a virtual format by TU Braunschweig, Germany.

The workshop took place on February 22, 2021, 09:00-17:00 CET.

We aimed for an interactive format to stimulate group discussions which potentially lead to further activities such as joint publications, projects, and networks.

To reach this goal, we invited two keynote speakers: one from the SE community as well as one from the CPPS community to enlighten the audience with concrete experiences and thoughts from both fields in order to set the stage. 

These keynotes were followed by an introduction and discussion round in which each workshop participant introduced his-/herself and clarified his/her expectations for the workshop. This was collected (live), on a shared whiteboard, to be potentially discussed in break-out groups. 

The collected statements were clustered and the participants then voted for topics to be discussed in break-out groups in the afternoon. 

The results of the break-out groups were presented (by the break-out group leaders) and discussed in the large audience to come up with a collaborative research roadmap and networks to identify potential collaborations.

For the lightning talks and the discussions we used the following list of topics:

<ul>
  <li>Engineering Process (Requirements, design, implementation, testing, ...)</li>
  <li>Operation and Evolution (Data-driven, continuous integration, DevOps, agile, ...)</li>
  <li>Languages (DSLs, GPLs, standards, ...)</li>
  <li>Modeling (MDD, MDE, transformations, interoperability, code generation ...)</li>
  <li>Security and Safety (CPPS-specific safety/security protection objectives, security analysis, ...)</li>
  <li>Teaching (how to train SE in other disciplines, open courseware, ...)</li>
  <li>Management (Variability, modularization, configuration, ... )</li>
  <li>Usability and SE Tools (adoption, user interactions, ...)</li>
  <li>Emerging technologies (Cloud, AI, IoT, ...)</li>
  <li>Intelligent organization (Multi-agent systems, flexible architectures, ...)</li>
  <li>Interdisciplinary collaboration (Interfaces, conflict management, optimization, ...)</li>
</ul>

The workshop concluded with setting up a collaborative space to document the results and help with future activities of the workshop.

# Agenda

<b>February 22, 2021</b>, 09:00-17:00 CET

<ul>
  <li>09:00-10:30 Opening and Keynotes (incl. Q&A)</li>
  <li>09:10-09:50 <b>Keynote 1 Prof. Birgit Vogel-Heuser</b> Forever Young Automated Production Systems</li>
  <li>09:50-10:30 <b>Keynote 2 Prof. Matthias Jarke und Dr. Istvan Koren</b> Synthesizing Software Engineering Perspectives on CPPS: The Case of the Internet of Production</li>

  <li>10:30-11:00 Break</li>

  <li>11:00-12:00 Introductory round and discussion (each workshop participant introduces his-/herself and clarifies his/her expectations for the workshop and maybe puts out a provocative statement and/or challenges for SE in CPPS s/he would want to discuss)</li>

  <li>12:00 Voting on topics and definition of break-out groups (and their leaders)</li>

  <li>12:15-13:30 Lunch break</li>

  <li>13:30-15:00 Break-out groups</li>

  <li>15:00-15:30 Break</li>

  <li>15:30-16:30 Presentation of results of the break-out groups (by the break-out group leaders) and discussion in the large audience to come up with a collaborative research roadmap and networks to identify potential collaborations incl. planning publication of results</li>

  <li>16:30 Wrap/Up/Discussion/Plan next steps</li>
</ul>

# Keynotes

<b>Keynote 1 <a href="https://www.mw.tum.de/ais/lehrstuhl/personen/prof-vogel-heuser/">Prof. Birgit Vogel-Heuser</a></b> Forever Young Automated Production Systems

Wie können sich automatisierte Produktionssysteme selbst anpassen bzw. wie kann die Systemevolution solcher Systeme gemanagt werden? Die Systemevolution von automatisierte Produktionssysteme, kurz aPS, ist in aller Munde unter dem Stichwort Industrie 4.0 oder Cyber Physical Production Systems. Neben den gekoppelten System- und Softwaremodellen auf denen solche Anpassungen basieren, werden Agentenansätze vorgestellt, die die Rekonfiguration auf verschiedenen Ebenen der aPS erlauben. Ein Schwerpunkt wird auf Modularität und Variabilität als Voraussetzung solcher Systeme gelegt und auf Refactoring-Ansätze, um zu dieser zu gelangen.

<b>Keynote 2 <a href="http://dbis.rwth-aachen.de/cms/staff/jarke">Prof. Matthias Jarke</a> und <a href="http://dbis.rwth-aachen.de/cms/staff/koren">Dr. Istvan Koren</a></b> Synthesizing Software Engineering Perspectives on CPPS: The Case of the Internet of Production

Als CPPS-orientierte Fokussierung des Internet der Dinge verbindet das Internet der Produktion (IoP) bisher isolierte Datenquellen aus cyberphysischen Produktionssystemen und Informationssystemen der beteiligten Stakeholder mit dem Ziel effektiverer Innovation durch weltweite Verzahnung von Produktentwicklung, Produktionsbetrieb und Produktnutzung. Software-Engineering-Ansätze werden dabei mit Aspekten des Datenmanagements und maschinellen Lernens sowie auch der Kommunikationstechnik verzahnt. Um die Komplexität zu managen, setzen wir einerseits auf das Konzept des Digitalen Schattens als anwendungsbezogene Datenabstraktion, anderseits unterstützt unsere DevOpsUse-Methodik durch die kontinuierliche Einbeziehung der Endnutzer Nachhaltigkeit im Entwicklungsprozess.

## Organizers SECPPS 2021

<a href="https://rickrabiser.github.io/rick/">Rick Rabiser</a> is Full Professor for Software Engineering in Cyber-Physical Systems at the Linz Institute of Technology (LIT) at Johannes Kepler University Linz, Austria and is leading the Christian Doppler Laboratory VaSiCS.

<a href="https://www.mw.tum.de/ais/lehrstuhl/personen/prof-vogel-heuser/">Birgit Vogel-Heuser</a> is Full Professor at the Institute of Automation and Information Systems at Technical University Munich, Germany. 

<a href="https://www.se.jku.at/manuel-wimmer">Manuel Wimmer</a> is Full Professor at the Department of Business Informatics - Software Engineering at JKU Linz, Austria and is leading the Christian Doppler Laboratory CDL-MINT.

<a href="https://www.jku.at/linz-institute-of-technology/forschung/research-labs/cyber-physical-systems-lab/team/univ-prof-di-dr-alois-zoitl/">Alois Zoitl</a> is Full Professor for Cyber-Physical Systems for Engineering and Production at the Linz Institute of Technology (LIT) at Johannes Kepler University Linz, Austria and is leading the Christian Doppler Laboratory VaSiCS.
