---
permalink: /se22/
layout: page
slug: SE
year: 2022
---
# SECPPS 2022/1 (Feb 21, 2022)

The 2022 Edition of this Workshop series -- it's second instance collocated to SE and the overall fourth instance -- will be collocated with the <a href="https://www.se-2022.de/"><b>Software Engineering (SE22)</b></a> conference, to be held from Feb 21-25, 2022, organized in a virtual format by the Humboldt-University Berlin.

The workshop will take place on <b>February 21, 2022</b>, 09:00-17:00 CET.

We aim for an interactive format to stimulate group discussions which potentially lead to further activities, such as joint publications, projects, and networks.  

To reach this goal, we plan to invite two keynote speakers: one from the SE community and one from the CPPS community to enlighten the audience with concrete experiences and thoughts from both fields in order to set the stage. 

After the keynotes, we will have project showcases demonstrating applications of and technologies for SECPPS, for which we will invite industrial, semi-industrial (e.g., Fraunhofer), and academic (such as from the Internet of Production excellence cluster) researchers and engineers.

These presentations will be followed by brief lightning talks (invited, about 5 minutes) as well as presentations of results of the earlier SECPPS workshops. After each talk, questions, challenges, and statements will be collected to be potentially discussed in break-out groups in the afternoon.  

For the lightning talks and the discussions we foresee the following initial list of topics:

<ul>
  <li>Engineering Process (Requirements, design, implementation, verification & validation, ...)</li>
  <li>Operation and Evolution (Data-driven, continuous integration, DevOps, digital twins, agile, ...)</li>
  <li>Languages (DSLs, GPLs, standards, ...)</li>
  <li>Modeling (MDD, MDE, transformations, interoperability, code generation ...)</li>
  <li>Security and Safety (CPPS-specific safety/security protection objectives, security analysis, ...)</li>
  <li>Teaching (how to train SE in other disciplines, open courseware, ...)</li>
  <li>Management (Variability, modularization, configuration, ... )</li>
  <li>Usability and SE Tools (adoption, user interactions, ...)</li>
  <li>Emerging technologies (Cloud, AI, IoT, ...)</li>
  <li>Intelligent organization (Multi-agent systems, flexible architectures, ...)</li>
  <li>Interdisciplinary collaboration (Interfaces, conflict management, optimization, ...)</li>
</ul>

We will document the results of the workshop in a collaborative space to guide future activities of the community already partly built by the previous edition of the workshop. 

# Virtual Format

For holding the workshop virtually, we plan to use a video conferencing system such as Zoom to live-stream all presentations and enable discussions and break-out groups. We will additionally use shared online whiteboards and drawing tools to support discussions and creative processes. 

# Registration

SECPPS 2022 is collocated with the <a href="https://www.se-2022.de/"><b>Software Engineering (SE22)</b></a> conference, to be held from Feb 21-25, 2022, organized in a virtual format by the Humboldt-University Berlin.

Please use the registration system of SE22 to register for the workshop (and the conference), it's free this year.

# Agenda

<b>February 21, 2022</b>, 09:00-17:15 CET

<ul>
  <li>09:00-10:30 Opening and Keynotes (40min each incl. Q&A)</li>
  <ul>
    <li>09:10-09:50 Prof. Alexander Verl: Quo vadis Produktionsautomatisierung? (Moderator: Andreas Wortmann)</li>
    <li>09:50-10:30 Prof. Ralf Reussner: Multi-Model Development of CPS: Can Software Engineering Methods help? (Moderator: Rick Rabiser)</li>
  </ul>
  
  <li>10:30-11:00 Break</li>
  
  <li>11:00-12:30 Project showcases (10min each + 5min Q&A, see below) (Moderator: Manuel Wimmer)</li>
  
  <li>12:30-13:30 Lunch break</li>
  
  <li>13:30-14:30 Lightning talks (5min each + 5min Q&A, see below) (Moderator: Alois Zoitl)</li>
  
  <li>14:30-15:00 SECPPS Reading Club Results / Challenge Paper Planning (JKU (Kevin Feichtinger), definition of break-out groups</li>
  
  <li>15:00-15:30 Break</li>
  
  <li>15:30-16:30 Break-out groups (e.g., Paper Planning, ...)</li>
  
  <li>16:30-17:00 Presentation of break-out group results and discussion in the large audience</li>
  
  <li>17:00 Wrap/Up/Discussion/Plan next steps (esp. Next Workshop Fokus/Agenda)</li>
</ul>

# Project Showcases

<ul>
	<li>Software-Defined Manufacturing / Software-Defined Car (Uni Stuttgart (Andreas Wortmann))</li>
	<li>KI in der Spritzenfertigung bei Gerresheimer (Uni Hildesheim (Holger Eichelberger))</li>
	<li>Christian Doppler Labor Mastering Variability in Software-Intensive Cyber-Physical Production Systems (CDL VaSiCS) (JKU (Rick Rabiser und Alois Zoitl))</li>
	<li>Digitale Zwillinge als Enabler autonomer Wertschöpfungsnetzwerke mit erhöhter Produktivität (TUM (Felix Ocker))</li>
	<li>Explainable AI for automated Production Systems (Uni Koblenz-Landau (Marco Konersmann))</li>
	<li>Konsistenzprüfung bei der Modellierung von Materialflusssystemen (paluno (Rafael Schypula und Max Wünneberg))</li>
</ul>
  
# Lightning Talks

<ul>
	<li>Collective Adaptive Systems für resiliente Infrastrukturen Ideen aus dem DevOpt Projekt (Uni Hildesheim (Klaus Schmid))</li>
	<li>Engineering Digital Twins (JKU (Manuel Wimmer))</li>
	<li>The State of Contract-Based Design in IEC 61499 (OFFIS (Jörg Walter))</li>
	<li>Enabling Process Mining from IoT Data in a Smart Factory Model (Universität St.Gallen (Ronny Seiger))</li>
	<li>Industrie 4.0 Software Platforms: Desires, State and Challenges aus dem IIP-Ecosphere-Projekt (Uni Hildesheim (Holger Eichelberger))  </li> 
</ul>

# Keynotes

<b><a href="https://www.isw.uni-stuttgart.de/institut/team/Verl/">Prof. Alexander Verl</a>: Quo vadis Produktionsautomatisierung?</b>

Software treibt unsere Fähigkeiten der Produktionsautomatisierung. Durch neue Softwaremethoden für Digitale Zwillinge basierend auf Echtzeitsimulation und die Anwendung künstlicher Intelligenz in der Produktionsautomatisierung ermöglicht und begünstigt sie neue Produktionsmethoden, neue Anwendungen in der Industrierobotik und sogar neuartige Geschäftsmodelle in der Werkzeugmaschinenindustrie. Dieser Vortrag beleuchtet Forschungs- und Entwicklungstrends in der Produktionsautomatisierung aus dem Blickwinkel eines Steuerungstechnikers.

<b><a href="https://dsis.kastel.kit.edu/staff_ralf_reussner.php">Prof. Ralf Reussner</a>: Multi-Model Development of CPS: Can Software Engineering Methods help?</b>

The term software Engineering often refers to the transfer of engineering methods to the construction of software. Model based simulation, lean production are among the techniques inspired by electrical and mechanical engineering. However, through the increased role of software in basically all engineering artifacts and due to the advancement of software engineering methods, one could ask whether software engineering also has some methods to export to, for example, systems engineering? In this talk we try to give answers to these questions and illustrate it with research challenges from the field of multi-model development in vehicle engineering.

# Publication of Results

We do not call for scientific papers but rather are looking for lightning talks and project showcases by participants, which they will have to propose before the workshop. 

As a result of the workshop, we want to summarize the key findings as a technical report and a subset of this report is planned to be published via a relevant conference or journal.

Moreover, we will invite the participants to join the ongoing work of the SECPPS community which started with SECPPS'21 and continues until today.