---
permalink: /se24/
layout: page
slug: SE
year: 2023
---

# 6th Workshop on Software Engineering for Cyber-Physical Production Systems (SECPPS) 

This workshop edition is co-located with SE 2024.

Software plays an essential part in the efficient operation of modern production systems. While variability and complexity represent key challenges for cyber-physical production systems,  software design in production systems is still a neglected topic. The SECPPS workshop series aims to promote modern software engineering solutions to the challenges of cyber-physical production systems and foster interdisciplinary discussion.


## Call for Papers
For the first time in the workshop series, we are pleased to invite submissions of short papers on contributions that address the challenges of CPPS. Additionally, the workshop offers the opportunity to present ideas or problem statements in lightning talks and to discuss current topics in groups.

<ul>
  <li>Engineering Process (Requirements, design, implementation, verification & validation, ...)</li>
  <li>Operation and Evolution (Data-driven, continuous integration, DevOps, digital twins, agile, ...)</li>
  <li>Languages (DSLs, GPLs, standards, ...)</li>
  <li>Modeling (MDD, MDE, transformations, interoperability, code generation ...)</li>
  <li>Security and Safety (CPPS-specific safety/security protection objectives, security analysis, ...)</li>
  <li>Teaching (how to train SE in other disciplines, open courseware, ...)</li>
  <li>Management (Variability, modularization, configuration, ... )</li>
  <li>Usability and SE Tools (adoption, user interactions, ...)</li>
  <li>Emerging technologies (Cloud, AI, IoT, ...)</li>
  <li>Intelligent organization (Multi-agent systems, flexible architectures, ...)</li>
  <li>Interdisciplinary collaboration (Interfaces, conflict management, optimization, ...)</li>
</ul>

We will document the results of the workshop in a collaborative space to guide future activities of the community already partly built by the previous edition of the workshop. 


# Registration


Please use the registration system of SE24 to register for the workshop (and the conference).

# Agenda

tba

# Publication of Results

