---
permalink: /etfa24/
year: 2024
slug: etfa24
---
# SECPPS 2024/3 (ETFA 2024, Sep 10-13, 2024)

Our workshop series will have an appearance as Special Session at [ETFA 2024](https://2024.ieee-etfa.org/special-sessions/software_engineering_for_cyber_physical_production_systems/), the 29th International Conference on Emerging Technologies and Factory Automation from September 10-12, 2024.

## Call for Papers
With the emergence of Cyber-Physical Production Systems (CPPSs), systems engineers are facing a dramatic increase in the complexity of the development and operation of such systems. However, software plays a crucial role in the effective and efficient operation of CPPSs. Yet, Software Engineering for CPPSs poses several challenges, such as the integration of multiple disciplines, the unclear semantics and variability of engineering artifacts, support of AI for CPPSs, or the continuous testing and deployment to heterogeneous systems. Hence, it requires novel approaches to a large range of problems to address these challenges. More comprehensive and systematic views on all aspects of CPPSs and their development are required. The Special Session on Software Engineering for Cyber-Physical Production Systems aims to discuss challenges for software engineering approaches and technologies to CPPSs, including their adoption, and highlight novel methods for the design of CPPS software.

## Topics
- Model-based software and languages for the engineering and operation of CPPSs (e.g., DSL)
- Operation, evolution, and management of CPPS software (e.g., DevOps, agile methods)
- Approaches to monitor and improve CPPSs (e.g., Digital Twins, metrics, self-adaptability)
- Interdisciplinary collaboration in the engineering and operation of CPPS software
- Security, resilience and sustainability of CPPS software by design
- Testing, validation and verification of CPPSs
- Artificial intelligence and LLMs for the engineering and operation of CPPSs
- Software engineering education for CPPS engineers

## Aim
This Special Session aims at bringing together professionals from industry and academia to share cutting-edge concepts, recent developments, research results, and practical achievements in the area of software engineering for factory automation.

## Conference Format
The conference will comprise multi-track sessions for regular papers, to present significant and novel research results with a prospect for a tangible impact on the research area and potential implementations, as well as work-in-progress (WiP) and industry practice sessions.

## Important Dates

Please be kindly referred to the [official ETFA website](https://2024.ieee-etfa.org/important-dates/) for the current dates and detailed author instructions.

### Regular and Special Session Papers
- April 14: Submission deadline
- May 17: Acceptance notification
- July 1: Deadline for final manuscripts

### Work-in-progress/Industry Practice Papers
- May 26: Submission deadline
- June 17: Acceptance notification
- July 1: Deadline for final manuscripts