---
permalink: /se25/
slug: SE
year: 2024 
---

# 2nd Workshop on Software Engineering for Cyber-Physical Production Systems (SECPPS)
9th Meeting of the SECPPS Community

## About 
Software plays an essential part in the efficient operation of modern production systems. While variability and complexity represent key challenges for cyber-physical production systems,  software design in production systems is still a neglected topic. The SECPPS workshop series aims to promote modern software engineering solutions to the challenges of cyber-physical production systems and foster interdisciplinary discussion.

This workshop edition is co-located with [SE 2025](https://se2025.sdq.kastel.kit.edu/).

## Organizers
  * Bianca Wiesmayr (JKU Linz, AT)
  * Sandra Greiner (University of Southern Denmark, DK)

##  Workshop Program
Half-day program based on invited talks and submitted abstracts. Program will be announced here.
  

## Keynote

A keynote featuring core topics will be announced soon.




## Call for Abstract submissions
In addition to invited talks, we solicit abstract submissions for talks on the topics of the workshop. Depending on the number of submitted talks, we envision talks of 10-15 min length.

**Your submission may address one of the following topics:**

<ul>
  <li>Engineering Process (Requirements, design, implementation, verification & validation, ...)</li>
  <li>Operation and Evolution (Data-driven, continuous integration, DevOps, digital twins, agile, ...)</li>
  <li>Languages (DSLs, GPLs, standards, ...)</li>
  <li>Modeling (MDD, MDE, transformations, interoperability, code generation ...)</li>
  <li>Security and Safety (CPPS-specific safety/security protection objectives, security analysis, ...)</li>
  <li>Teaching (how to train SE in other disciplines, open courseware, ...)</li>
  <li>Management (Variability, modularization, configuration, ... )</li>
  <li>Usability and SE Tools (adoption, user interactions, ...)</li>
  <li>Emerging technologies (Cloud, AI, IoT, ...)</li>
  <li>Intelligent organization (Multi-agent systems, flexible architectures, ...)</li>
  <li>Interdisciplinary collaboration (Interfaces, conflict management, optimization, ...)</li>
</ul>

### Submission Information:
  
  Abstracts for talks will not be published and will undergo a light-weight review process by the organizers. Please submit an abstract (about 250 words) outlining the topic and contents of your talk via email to [Bianca Wiesmayr](mailto:bianca.wiesmayr@jku.at) with the title "SECPPS Workshop 2025 Abstract"

### Important Dates:

  * Workshop submitted to SE2025: 01.08.2024
  * Workshop accepted at SE2025: 06.09.2024
  * **Abstract submission: 15.11.2024**
  * Program announced: 15.12.2024
  * Workshop: 24. or 25.2.2025 in Karlsruhe

# Registration

Please use the registration system of SE25 to register for the workshop (and the conference).


## Contact

For any question or need of further information about the workshop, please do not hesitate to contact the workshop organizers:

[Bianca Wiesmayr](mailto:bianca.wiesmayr@jku.at), [Sandra Greiner](mailto:greiner@imada.sdu.dk)
